See the schedule in the syllabus for all due dates, expectations, and policies. All submissions must adhere to the syllabus policy on AI, plagiarism, and citations. Remember that assignment due dates are final deadlines, not indicators of when you're supposed to work on them. You are given several days to complete assignments that take, at most, a few hours. Procrastinate at your own peril. You will be graded on your adherence to *all* the instructions, so please read them carefully.

Group exercises need only one submission per group, so nominate a single submitter to submit on behalf of the whole group. Written feedback will be provided directly to that submitter, via Brightspace, so ensure you share it with the other group members.

Group exercises leverage your diversity of skills and life experiences. We expect each of you to contribute to your group assignments in whatever way you can create proportional value: some will be better at code, others at writing, etc. We don't intend to hold your hand: coordination, delegation, accountability, and conflict resolution are challenging but necessary professional skills. Organize, collaborate, and communicate proactively with one another. There will be a formal group peer review at the end of the semester to help determine your final grade. See also: [Coping with Hitchhikers and Couch Potatoes on Teams](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3110/2018fa/teams/hitchhikers.html).

# Group Assignment 1: Collecting Data

This course's final project requires you to identify a research question, collect data, analyze it, and discuss how your findings answer the question.

For this assignment, you will agree on a semester-long research topic and question for your group. This can be tweaked somewhat as the semester goes on, if needed, but for now I want you to have at least a working research topic and question. As an example, your research topic might be "transportation justice" and your question might be "are low-income communities subjected to more vehicular pollution than high-income communities, even though they tend to drive less?"

Next you will identify and download datasets from at least two different sources (for example, the census bureau and the LA city data portal) that you believe will help you answer this question. If you cannot find data from two sources to address your question, then it is likely not an appropriate question for the purposes of this course. At least one of your datasets must have a spatial component (such as latitude-longitude points, or building footprints, or census tracts, or anything else explicitly "spatial").

Write a 2-3 page paper (single-spaced, 12-point Times New Roman font) that does the following. First, explain your research topic, its context, and its importance (establish the overarching issue or concern). Second, state and explain your research question and any expectations you have going into it. Third, document the datasets you have downloaded, including 1) the data sources; 2) the data contents such as variable names, descriptions, and units of analysis; 3) how you believe these data could help you answer your research question over the course of the semester. Submit this paper as a PDF.

# Group Assignment 2: Coding Logic

1. You will create your first complete Jupyter notebook in order to work with loops, conditionals, iteration, and functions. Review _Think Python_ section 4.7 to develop a plan and section 6.4 on incremental development. Also review the code in the notebook from this class session.
2. You will write four functions to work with prime numbers. A prime number is any whole number greater than 1 that has no positive divisors besides 1 and itself. So, a prime number a) must be an integer, b) must be greater than 1, and c) must be divisible only by 1 and itself.
   1. Write a function `is_prime(n)` that accepts an argument n and returns boolean True if n is a prime number and boolean False if n is not prime. For example, calling `is_prime(11)` should return True and `is_prime(12)` should return False.
   2. Write a function `print_primes(n)` that accepts an argument n and prints all the prime numbers between 0 and n (inclusive). This function should call the `is_prime` function you developed earlier. For example, calling `print_primes(13)` should print out: 2 3 5 7 11 13
   3. Write a function `count_primes(n)` that accepts an argument n and returns an integer count of how many prime numbers there are between 0 and n (inclusive). This function should also call the `is_prime` function you developed earlier. For example, calling `count_primes(19)` should return 8, because there are eight prime numbers between 0 and 19.
   4. Write a function `first_primes(n)` that accepts an argument n and returns a Python list containing the first n prime numbers. (Hint: use a while loop and append each prime you find to a list.) This function should also call the `is_prime` function you developed earlier. For example, calling `first_primes(5)` should return the first five prime numbers as a list: `[2, 3, 5, 7, 11]`
3. Create a new, clean notebook to contain your work. The first cell in your notebook should be a markdown cell containing a plain-English narrative of the a) logic you will need to code and b) how your development process corresponds to _Think Python_ sections 4.7 and 6.4. Use this narrative to think through how you will tackle each function. Each of the four functions should be in its own notebook cell. At the end of each of these cells, call the function by passing in a test value to demonstrate that it is working properly.

Before submitting, confirm the following: does your code fully run? Does it do what it's supposed to do the way it's supposed to do it? Is it well-commented and documented? Is your code clear, straightforward, and reasonably efficient?

At the end of the notebook, include a markdown cell that identifies each group member and describes their contribution to this assignment (one sentence each). Make sure your notebook runs from the top without any errors and that all the visuals can be seen inline (without me having to re-run your notebook). Click "Edit > Clear all outputs" and then "Runtime > Restart runtime". This clears your memory and re-initializes your notebook. Then click "Runtime > Run all" and make sure everything behaves properly. Then save and submit your notebook via Brightspace.

# Group Assignment 3: Data Visualization

You will visualize the data you downloaded in assignment 1. Create a new Jupyter notebook. The first cell of your notebook should be markdown explaining where you found your data set and what it contains. This should include 1) *who* collected, generated, assembled, and maintain the data, 2) *what* variables the data contain, if they are transformed in some important way, and at what level they are aggregated, 3) *when* it was released and what time period it covers, 4) where: what geographical area it covers.

Use pandas to load your data set and clean/process it as needed. Identify at least two variables of interest and calculate relevant descriptive statistics. Using the techniques we learned in class, visualize interesting aspects of your data set. Next, in total, you will create at least 4 visualizations using at least 3 different visualization types (such as bar charts, line charts, scatter plots, or anything else). 1 of your visualizations should be a "bad" visualization (that is, does not follow best practices) and the next one should be an improvement of it.

Each visualization should be followed by a markdown cell that succinctly explains what you are visualizing and why it is interesting. What story does it tell? How do the visuals enrich, confirm, or contradict the descriptive statistics you calculated earlier? For the "bad" visualization and its improvement, explain what's wrong with the former and how you improved it with the latter.

At the end of the notebook, include a markdown cell that identifies each group member and describes their contribution to this assignment (one sentence each). Make sure your notebook runs from the top without any errors and that all the visuals can be seen inline (without me having to re-run your notebook). Click "Edit > Clear all outputs" and then "Runtime > Restart runtime". This clears your memory and re-initializes your notebook. Then click "Runtime > Run all" and make sure everything behaves properly. Then save and submit your notebook and any data files, all zipped together, via Brightspace.

# Group Assignment 4: Spatial Analysis

You will analyze the data you downloaded in assignment 1, and optionally other new data as needed. Create a new Jupyter notebook. Use geopandas to load your data set and clean/process it as needed.

Join two datasets together (either a pandas merge or a geopandas spatial join). Project them to a sensible CRS. Using the mapping techniques we learned in class, visualize interesting aspects of your data. Create at least 3 maps. Each map should be followed by a markdown cell that succinctly explains the map's interpretation, the projection that you chose to use, and what you are visualizing and why it is interesting: tell us its story. This story should be accompanied by any relevant descriptive statistics, as needed, to round out the picture.

At the end of the notebook, include a markdown cell that identifies each group member and describes their contribution to this assignment (one sentence each). Make sure your notebook runs from the top without any errors and that all the visuals can be seen inline (without me having to re-run your notebook). Click "Edit > Clear all outputs" and then "Runtime > Restart runtime". This clears your memory and re-initializes your notebook. Then click "Runtime > Run all" and make sure everything behaves properly. Then save and submit your notebook and any data files, all zipped together, via Brightspace.

# Group Assignment 5: Inferential Stats

You will analyze the data you downloaded in assignment 1, and optionally other new data as needed. Create a new Jupyter notebook. Use geopandas to load your data set and clean/process it as needed. Using the techniques we learned in class, do the following two things:

1. conduct a inferential analysis such as difference-in-means or estimate a population parameter from a sample
2. estimate and interpret a regression model

Each step above should be followed by a markdown cell that succinctly explains your analysis, why you set it up the way you did, and how you interpret its results. This interpretation should include some induction (that is, interpret your coefficients numerically in terms of sign, size, and significance) and some abduction (that is, inference to the best explanation: how would you explain what's happening numerically here in the context of theory and your own real-world experience?). Tell us a story about the real world using your results. For your regression model, also explain how you specified it and why.

At the end of the notebook, include a markdown cell that identifies each group member and describes their contribution to this assignment (one sentence each). Make sure your notebook runs from the top without any errors and that all the visuals can be seen inline (without me having to re-run your notebook). Click "Edit > Clear all outputs" and then "Runtime > Restart runtime". This clears your memory and re-initializes your notebook. Then click "Runtime > Run all" and make sure everything behaves properly. Then save and submit your notebook and any data files, all zipped together, via Brightspace.
